emotum«. vll

reique consentaneum est, nihil nt praeclarius et
ad usum huius scriptoris recte instituendum salu-
brius dici posse videatur. Verba autem eius, quae
llist of the D. and F. ol tho R. E. c. LXIII. lc-
guntnr‚ haec arnt: ¹

»The name and situation ol the emperor John
Cantacnzene might inspiro the most lively curio-
sity. His memoriale of forty years ntend from
the revolt of the younger Andronicus to hia own
abdication ol the empire, ondit isobaerved, that,
lile Moses and Caesar, he was the principa} ao-
tor in the soenes which he describes. But in this
eloquent work, we should vainly scel the sin-
cerity of an hero or a peniteat· Retired in e
cloyster l'rom the vices and passione of the world
he presente not a confession, but an apology, ot
the lile of an ambitious statesman. Instead ol
unlolding the true counsels and characters ol men,
he displays the smooth and specious. surlace ol
eventa, highly varnished with his own praises and
those of his friends. Their motivcs are always
pure3 their ends always legitimate: they conspire
and rebel without any views of interest3 and the ·
violence which they inflict or suffer is celebrated
aa the spontaneous effect of reason and virtue« .

ι Sor. Bonuae mena. Sept. a. 1828. ,

Ἣ

 

